Yesterday 1:06 PM
And lies progress sounds to Syria, and it's hard on analysis and Monica's focused on the other countries. 

Case studies, so first is. 

Is mainly used for the choice of the problem of traveling congestion, so the traffic congestion is a major problem in urban area. 

Traditional solution circumstance will increase. 

Student capacity is meaning on the physical, but this is also means to reduce demands. 

So, is there so some modern transportation policy workers on the managing child demands through TDM and Youth Rising to solve the traffic congestion problem And what is TDM? 

The TDM is traffic demands. 

Management is referred to policy designs to solve the to reduce or re-distribution distributive travel demanding, then also increasing and supply. 

Just like I mention is for policy. 

It's not by the physical way to solve the congestion problem in the Urban area, so it's Burger sounds into into the traveler behaviors and also offers in economics perspective to solve the problem. 

So, the GDM is based on the economic and behavior Theory. 

The child means usually depends on the three three comments, uh, circum and circuminances, travel costs, and travel time, and also the convenience. 

But as junglers. 

So, once the cost increase against will decrease, so Chenia is mainly used to increase the cost of Travelers to decrease the Travelers Necessary. 

So, the objective of tdf is many used on its mainly for the four objectives. 

First, one is reduce the congestion, but by the project, not project that by a lot of policies like policies design to reduce the congestion, and also they want to improve the transportation efficiency and the another objective is reduce. 

Environment's impacts like to reduce pollution of the transportation and also going to promote sustainable transport. 

So, this is the objective of TDM And the TDM strategy is purely used by four ways. 

It's many used for group pricing, like yourself, Torus, to surprising the high experience price way to to reduce the car in the car. 

It adds into sorry to to to to to to, to control the cars using and and for the parking. 

Pricing is also the same way to control the car. 

So using of cars and also for the public transport improvements is, uh, its focus also improves infrastructure of transportation of public transportation to To supply more Alternatives for the travelers to to have the more choice of Travelers and the last. 

The last step is traveler demands. 

Reduction is, Uh, children development, and also some couples couples policies and to to to, to to, to manage The Travelers behaviors to make To make some reduce traveler, And what is the revising the real pricing is the policies that charge users from the use, especially in congestion area and or some peak hours. 

So it's one of the most effective, effective TDM tools, so the economic, so it's based on the three main Street Series 63 Series, so first is the economic theory. 

It was an external cost, and the second is working on social cost, Theory, and the last one is behavior impacts. 

So, first one is economic theory, external externity. 

That means congestion is a negative externity cost of the transportation that each driver each driver increase. 

So, travel time for other people, but they don't have to pay for it like they will increase Other people as our Travelers time, costs, and money, cost, and other things. 

So, and the good pricing where in China internalized the external cost, that means you have to pay. 

You have to pay the bills. 

If you as a car, if you as a user, so it's, uh, it's a internalized the external cost for so good pricing and sorts of marginal social cost series. 

That means That is. 

That's based on the working on social costs, marketing social costs, equal private cost Plus external cost like external costs is. 

Like I mentioned before. 

It's it's a cost of new the user increased other people, other Travelers cost, and the private cost is your owner, your owner caused by you using your cars like your cost screen, your gasoline speed, and other fees. 

And surprising also can improve the efficiency, like we use a high, is a toll roads to charge, charge the car users, and other things. 

And so, for the behavioral tax It, uh, it's it's focus on, uh, it's focus on push push Travelers to use public transportation to increase the pressure of the use of the car of the car after car users, so traveler and they encourage traveler traveler at different times. 

Like, we don't. 

We don't have a lot of people at a daily big time and, and also, they want to reduce unnecessary trips. 

So, this is, uh, your pricing using for. 

So, this is the challenge transportation problems. 

So, first one is the high car ownership, because every everyone knows Thailand, people like love, love drivers, I love Joy with some Joy cars. 

So, so the Thai car ownership in cooking increase, uh, they didn't choose excess travel demands and several traffic congestion, and also the repeat organizations. 

Every organization in Bangkok has increased the population of Density as a traveler demands pricing in significance, pressure on existing Transportation infrastructures, and also The Limited space limited Aerospace in Banglocacy restrict transportation, Transportation capacity, and also make it difficult to contain a command accommodate, accommodate increasing child demands and result, resulting in the frequent congestion. 

So this is a main problem of talent, especially in Bangkok, and So TDM strategy in Thailand. 

Since the four strategies first one is public transportation development team? 

The investment on the BDI, BTS, and MRT and other other real real transit, real Transit, and also some other macro Mobilities, so and so, and the charge of charge a lot of Express. 

We see pricings or tolerance and to increase the increase. 

The car users cost, and also they do the parking pricing, say see. 

I remember, do the Sack snacks for working time to reduce the peak time internal congestion, and also this reflects, uh, call TDM series. 

There's many managed demands rather than increase increasing the cell plank. 

So, for the Thailand challenge is, high card depends dependency. 

That's a reason why, uh, Traffic congestion is so bad. 

And also there has a public resistance People love Traverse a lot, uh, like cars, and uh, they don't want to pay a lot of money on the public transportation, if if the cost is is balanced to to their own transfer to their own transportation, they won't choose the public transportation and also the limited transportation. 

Public transportation coverage is a manly reason of the Thailand congestion. 

Because the BTS and MRT and other, Uh, as a real transised, is this cannot cover me every everywhere in Thailand. 

So, That's a bad challenge, too. 

So, this is a conclusion of the TDM, TDM, and Group pricing is our essential tools of managing Urban contrast contraction instead of expanding use managing demands is more efficients and sustainable. 

The root pricing help helps, helps improve efficiency and support sustainable Transportation system. 

So together, See, improve the. 

So together. 

See improves the transportation efficiency and sustainability. 

Okay, uh, next one is, I will present the page that is For the case that is about Road pricing or congestion pricing, which is like a long, already presented Road pricing is the most effective data tools. 

So, uh, in this game studies, uh, therefore, case studies, uh, the first one is Singapore purchases, uh, it's saying that the ideal subject for studying the congestion process. 

Second, one is London. 

It's about the public and political, uh, accessibility. 

The third one is phone call. 

Understanding the benefit of illustrating the benefits to the public And the last one is about that. 

We will see, like, how it's internet. 

It's effective implementation of congestion policy. 

So, the first one is in Singapore congestion pricing, Uh, they're actually main points about Singapore can just stand for, uh, pricing. 

They have a different pricing structure like, uh, type of cycle, type of thing, and also the level of real-time position, uh, from each Road, Uh. 

Also, they have utilities utilization of refinue from this congestion pricing to improving the public transport surfaces. 

And the third one is the evolution process. 

From the simple one to make a comprehensive strategies of other policies. 

So the impact from these congestion pricing is 24 reduction in the inner city traffic 50, 15 increase in bus and train Riders here. 

Then, until 15 reduction levels of Emissions and For the social benefits. 

They, you know, like a better accessibility, connecting with the improving the public health and also support the economic development And for the infrastructure. 

I'm also, uh, because they're referring you, uh, from the congestion pricing used to improving the public transport Services so their infrastructure is getting better. 

So, uh, because of Singapore condition creation, they have like a major investment in public transaction, Basically working networks and also getting translated performance. 

So, if you want to pass a car? 

So, if you want to pass a car In Singapore, you have to be for the certificate of environment. 

So, for the image Aoe, you have to get, Uh, for each category, so you cannot just buy a car. 

You have to have this certificate to have a car that's one of the comprehensive strategy by the government in Singapore, To to reduce the car in the city and encourage people to use more public transportation. 

So, yeah, this certificate is, Yes, it's. 

It will do. 

You have to get a game. 

You have to get a game. 

So, yeah, the system is steady to get the certificate, then that's the the result for February 2026. 

So, every, every month, only two two times, What a PD. 

This is for Singapore, and the next case is the Wonderland congestion pricing. 

Congestion pricing is. 



Yesterday 1:23 PM
Pricing Congestion pricing is about. 



Yesterday 1:23 PM
Employment, people, acceptability problems. 

Because the political climate in London, Quite similar wind condition in Ireland. 

So if if the map Intra low emissions open for the whole problem, but the congestion charging zone is? 

So, this isn't timeline. 

In 2003, they introduced 300 new buses, introduce new bus routes and increases, and expanding on existing roads. 

In 2003, they introduced 300 new buses, introduce new bus routes and increases, and expanding on existing roads. 

Also, establishing over 8500 park and ride spaces and additional basically a bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure. 

So, it's just not about the introducing the congestion pricing, but they also improving another, uh, public transportation services. 

Also, they have a campaign. 

This is the campaign of the congestion pricing in London, and also they have like educational programs, so they want to build the organized for the residents, so it's just not about. 

We want to introduce you about the projection pricing, but also education, the people, the residents about The communication, pricing, and how bad the traffic is, you know. 

And, uh, everyone. 

So the impact is the traffic condition is, reduces Air pollution also reducing 12, and the buyer. 

The password in States, increasing 38. 

This is the Verbital of the congestion pricing in every year until 2023, and also the ownership in 2021 you can see will be in dinner Is the condition by saying ozone, which is the current ownership, is really low compared to other area. 

So, uh, the conversation for the London congestion pricing is residence awareness. 

Stay aware that Too much traffic in the London and they're also concerned about the travel times and the fire pollution Is the governance, Uh, a strong commitment and a decision to implement from the mayor of the London, also from a prior to the implementation. 

The government modified and approved several language legislation to allow introduction this, uh, congestion pricing and enable another local alternatives to utilize revenue from the congestion pricing to improving the public transportation services, And then the government also pushed forward several policies at the national level To encourage and support different cities to apply the price in the congestion. 

Pricing like government offers the budget to developing public transportation, uh, infrastructure. 

So, it is what this case studies. 

It's about awareness of the residents, the political leadership, and also the timing of the implementation. 

The next one is congestion. 

Pricing 2004 Is already passed. 

The communication pricing final program, but at that time public, they have like a low public support. 

And then, in 2005, they have a trial for the congestion pricing. 

I like spending public schools, constructing additional park and rights, and also the congestion chunks I am after the trial. 

In 2006, the congestion price trial operated automatically in 18 points, And after Tony South is 30, until 50 reduction in congestion for until five percent increase in number of passengers in transit system. 

So before the trial, Uh, like, 80 of residents, uh, oppose this congestion file program. 

But after the trial, They see the Improvement. 

So, after the trial, most of the residents wanted to make this system permanent. 

So, after that, they have a Mac expansion, so they make Like political parties and other stakeholders discussing how these the charts could be redesigned, and the revenue should be used for, uh, for one, for the public transportation services or other things, And also they make it a permanent position pricing system in January 2007, And I decided that this fish will be attacked And with congestion pack system was expanded or in the highway in 2016 And the pricing. 

The pricing scheme is also updated by using the time of day, so it's during the morning and evening big hours. 

So, from this congestion pricing, you can see that in Pakistan 20 reduction in traffic 30 until 20 traffic being a decrease, uh, past 14 percent of vehicle miles travel, decreasing also reduction on the emission in the city And the next one is the last one. 

Is Jakarta congestion pricing, so project Ineffective implementation of congestion pricing? 

This all right, man. 

It's encouraging people to buy another car. 

It's encouraging people to buy another car, Not using the public transportation. 

It's also like Erp, also not ineffective, because also the, uh, Jacob is still liking in public transportation services, so it's limiting. 

Transportation, both choice for the people, And it's causing that ineffective implementation for the congestion pricing. 

So, from all of these case studies, the congestion pricings requires Transit investment. 

You have to also invest in a public transportation services And the second ones. 

Also, you do during failure from the congestion pricing. 

Need to support the public personal Improvement. 

That one is The fair or change commuter frequencies, so it's more The policy makers need to make a Or pole charts so people can change their preferences. 

Oh, very animated trips, making them more efficient trips and change. 

Let me try full time, And the fourth one is the public support of the congestion Pisces, Uh, which is also requires the political will from the, Uh, government, And also how government educate the residents about the congestion pricing. 

And that's all for the presentation. 

I need to engage you Okay, um, all right. 

So, thank you so much, uh, for the presentations, Very good. 

Good summary. 

Um, let's start from The first question that I asked you. 

It seems a little unbalanced. 

No, I feel like mine is way out there. 

So, my, my voice is a little off today. 

So, my, my voice is a little off today. 

What's the team? 

What's the team? 

Because you know, um, if you go back to the slide, sometimes it's traffic. 

Sometimes it's trouble. 

Sometimes it's Transportation. 

Made up your mind. 

What make up your mind? 

Wait. 

Which one is the tea that you'd like to, um, to focus on? 

What would you like? 

What should the T be? 

What should the T be Traffic Travel Transportation? 

So, you say transportation Transportation. 

All of you Sure trouble! 

Doesn't matter, But nobody says traffic. 

Sorry, yeah, Traffic. 

Other Transportation, but in terms of the demand management aspect of it, like the bad management to me is like trying to limit right. 

Since you're trying to limit the demand, and so You're limiting, I don't know. 

Traffic honey, it's clear, right, when you say. 

But yeah, no, like when you say toughing, I mean, we're we're not. 

We will try not to debate semantics too much, but it the word describes the boundary of the system. 

We want to explore, right? 

So, when you say traffic, What? 

What usually comes into mind? 

Trust him, It's just the cars you You don't think about, like Walking is part of traffic. 

Typically, no right. 

Okay, So Um, in this case, or in any case, by the way, no, no one is wrong here. 

I just want to know where you would draw the line of the boundaries. 

The uh of the system, Say, say, let's. 

Let's do traffic demand management. 

What would you do just for traffic demand management? 

Yeah, when you want to do traffic demand management, what do you do Examples around here? 

And more choices and choices. 

Okay, I guess, Um, so forget that traffic for now. 

Do the Matt demand management part? 

What do you do? 

How do what do you? 

What do you manage of the demand? 

What aspect of the demanding you manage? 

So Strike the balance between the demand and Supply, And then in terms of one, When do you when you manage? 

What do you do with it in there? 

Because Supply cannot can be increased a little bit here and there, I guess. 

Hey, assuming you're the word, traffic demand management Doesn't do much in terms of Supply management, Right? 

So you're focusing on the demand. 

What do you do with it? 

What's the objective of demand management? 

Reduce the well. 

Congestion is sort of the end, right? 

But how, what, what, what are the, what are the the um? 

But how, what, what, what are the? 

Obviously, we want to reduce congestion. 

Obviously, we want to reduce congestion. 

That's. 

That's the, um, Uh, that's the intervention point. 

But you, you just said the word reduce, But reduce in terms of what Like the whole demand or what do you do. 

Okay, Unnecessary demand. 

Okay, I guess that's a little, Um, morally interesting. 

What is unnecessary demand? 

Like you're going out on a date and on Valentine's Day, that's unnecessary demand. 

Somebody is going to see friends which one is unnecessary? 

Somebody is going to see friends which one is unnecessary. 

It's a little bit tricky, right? 

Laura is speaking, So let's rephrase it Because we don't want to get into like this moral, slippery, slow. 

Oh, your demand is unnecessary. 

It's it's pretty. 

It's, it's pretty, You know, morally sensitive, right? 

So, so what do you what kind of demand, But he said reduce? 

Is that reduce the overall demand? 

What do we do But sorry? 

Separates the Admiral rise. 

That's sort of. 

Yeah, you're getting there. 

But what we are doing here. 

I mean, first of all, do we do we need to reduce the demand, Yes or no, No, I mean, the more people travel, isn't that the better for the economy? 

Yeah, So why do you want to reduce the demand? 

Are you saying that people just should just stay at home? 

Are you saying that people just should just stay at home Reduce steady man? 

So, no, no. 

Go ahead, and it's like, maybe not just reduce this shit. 

Yeah, so we're not talking about reducing the total demand, but we want to shift to demand, But I mean, not, how, like, how, Sorry, no, no? 

Go ahead. 

Yeah, Um, you, you shift the demand in one way, because how could me like the methods or the pattern You shift from, where to, where, from where, to, where, and from when to where, Right? 

So, it's both not just space, but also time. 



Yesterday 1:41 PM
So, it's both not just space, but also time. 



Yesterday 1:41 PM
Shifty man in terms of space and time. 

Because we know that this limitation In terms of supply, Right, it supplies generally very rigid In terms of space and time. 

Therefore, the word botany Right that your friend was referring to bottleneck is pretty much space and time limitation, Right? 

So, we want to shift it. 

We don't necessarily Want to reduce the total demand all the time. 

I'm not saying that we should not, because during covet, There's some objectives Right of producing the travel demand because we don't want people to get, you know, Covid, right? 

So, But usually usually. 

Is derived demand? 

Do you remember? 

I mentioned this word. 

I do remember, I mean, I spent some the way the first class. 

What is derived demand somebody? 

Remember Derived demand. 

What does it mean? 

D, r, d, e, r, i, v, e, derived. 

So when I, I do need, I demand this water now because my throat is a little dry. 

This is direct, I need to consume it. 

That's why I demand the water, But why is trouble A type of derived demand? 

Because people need to go somewhere, Right? 

So, the activity at the end of the trip is the ultimate demand, But travel itself is just a means to an end, Right, unless you drive for the sake of fun. 

All right. 

Let's go for July. 

That's direct demand, Right? 

But usually, You don't travel because you love to travel Correct. 

So, If you're study in this class and you go out and not knowing the word, the right demand, I'm not your instructor, okay, because that's the bottom line. 

You always have to think of the usual trouble as derived demand. 

Obviously, if you're traveling for fun, That's different, right? 

Tourists most of the time. 

Maybe, I mean, You know, like, I don't enjoy being on the plane, but I used to, like, oh, getting on the plane was so much fun, Right? 

Enjoy being on the plane, but now, I mean, like, literally. 

Like, tomorrow. 

Originally, I was supposed to go to Geneva for two days, like there was a meeting At the U.N for, like, a day and a half. 

Like, I'm not going. 

I'm not telling you I don't enjoy to travel anymore, Right? 

Like, maybe 25 years ago, said, oh wow, okay. 

Free ticket, right? 

You better enjoy it. 

That's different. 

So, If trouble is derived, a man, How would that affect The way we think about Space and time of demand management? 

Cuz we know that we want. 

We want to rearrange the space and time, Right? 

But if we, If we are reducing the total trouble of demand, It means that we are targeting the reduction of the actual direct demand, Right? 

We want to reduce people to work. 

People don't go anywhere for fun, Right? 

People don't meet their business partners, Right? 

It means that the total economy should be down as well, so we don't want that Unless, unless the new model of online meeting, right? 

That's a different Category itself that that's changing the whole concept of travel demand, right? 

But let's stick to the traditional kind. 

Think of it. 

Think of, You know, that if the economy goes well, then there should be traffic jam. 

There used to be thinking, like, that seriously like Traffic is bad. 

Oh, the economy must be good, right? 

You talk to cab drivers. 

Okay, taxi divers here said, You know, traffic is not good, But it means that the business is bad. 

It's, it's irony, it's. 

It's an iron, but anyway, so going back to travel, Transportation, and traffic These three words. 

If you use the word traffic demand management, What generally come to your mind? 

Okay, you want to shift the flow using your shift. 

The flow in terms of space and time, All right. 

How do you do it? 

How do you demand the traffic by shifting the flow, Rearranging the flow of troughing In terms of space and time? 

What do you see people doing or the traffic police, the traffic Engineers? 

What did it do? 

Adjusting the flow. 

You have counter flow, right? 

Very dangerous, but sometimes you see it right. 

You have four lanes, four lanes in the morning. 

There's six, right, the afternoon. 

It's shifted to two and six. 

Whatever you're adjusting right, you adjust the flow, Right, because you know that one flow would be larger than the other flow? 

What else do you do traffic demand management? 

Yeah, good. 

Correct answer, but examples Multiple multiple routes, multiple rounds. 

Well, I mean, usually, don't people want to go to the destination with the the quickest or the shortest routes? 

Oh, I guess, no, I was thinking. 

Now you have Google Multiple choices, Right? 

But you know people, people are seriously different. 

I rarely drive, but when I drive, I'd rather go slow, but continuously, But Google tends to minimize the travel time, Even though you get stuff gets stuck in the on the highway for a long time, Right? 

I mean people are different And you look at the shortest or the quickest way that Google does Of your sort of friendish, Uh Joey dmus, Uh, grad student. 

He's actually. 

His research is going to be looking at Google, Um, recommendations how Google actually tell people in certain ways. 

But people actually choose to travel in different ways. 

For example, She may ask you guys to be the respondents of his survey, but So that's sort of. 

You know, when people have various options, and then you know, like detours, for example, right? 

You can actually mitigate the traffic in one bottleneck, So that's one. 

How about time, what do you do in terms of Arranging Things so that The traffic is Shift? 

Yeah, so flexible hours, right? 

So, but that, that? 

It could go up to travel demand management, because that could be good for rail. 

It could go up to travel demand management, because that could be good for rail As well. 

Right of us. 

Even A flexible hours. 

People start, Um, their office at 10 instead of seven, Or, you know, come early at seven, but leave at Right In various cities around the world that's being adopted, whether or not is successful, remains to be, you know, Ace floored. 

I mean, there's some Yes, I'm saying yes. 

Some other other says, no, Let's come back to this because this is really interesting, Um, flexible hours. 

What is the key hypothesis For adopting this measure To to to do travel demand management? 

Why, why do you think this is a good travel demand management strategy? 

Why, why? 

Why do people even propose this idea? 

This personal time because people tend to Work at the same hours, right? 

Okay, so that's my hypothesis. 

How do you go about implementing it, You? 

How do you go about implementing it? 

You want to have. 

You are an urban strategist now for Bangkok. 

Okay, Hypothetically, if I run for, you know, backup governor in the next few months? 

You never know. 

I'm just tell you something interesting story later, but anyway, hypothetically, if I were, And you need to become my strategist, And you need to recommend Flexible hours. 

How would you implement it? 

That's the idea. 

I'm sure you talk to. 

Uh, you and Nico sorry. 

The companies in the CBDs. 

Okay, same? 

Okay, then? 

What do you do all right, you two work together? 

Now, what do you do you? 

You want to Target offices in Sea law, You distribute the confidence. 

What do you do? 

May I help? 

Make the law. 

Oh, the law usually takes about five years. 

Yeah, it's not gonna be that easy, I mean. 

And the governor. 

Have I have the power over the, uh, Over their offices? 

I can't just say, tomorrow, I'm declaring all offices. 

I'm not King, right? 

Even the king, couldn't? 

Maybe You can't. 

So, the law is a little bit long-term Measure, Right? 

So, look, This is not an urban planning class. 

This is an urban strategy class Thing of strategy. 

We know that the legal strategy takes too long. 

It's structural, which is good, but You know, as a governor, I didn't have a lot of time. 

Okay, that may take a long time, but it's not impossible. 

Maybe corporate income tax? 

Maybe corporate income tax That that usually takes a while? 

Okay, it's a little. 

Maybe it's related because, you know, Maya, you're saying, like, I don't know what, what we had in mind when you said hello, because this requires the law as well, but it's more like the tax law, Right? 

Uh, but it's actually more difficult when it comes to, uh, income tax, because income tax, usually in Thailand, because we, you know, we are parliamentary system, a unitary state. 

All right, so we became. 

All right, so we became Sorry. 

Governor cannot do. 

Honestly, Governor cannot do anything. 

That's why I don't want to become one. 

Already a lot of police see the benefit in having time to report. 

Okay, A little a little too Advanced. 

Step back from hybrid a little bit because hybrid is relatively new, But the idea of flexible hours, Uh, happened even before hybrid. 

I understand hybrid helps, right? 

But let's, let's do, without hybrids at a moment, assuming that everybody needs to come into the office, but just different times. 

Like, seven to three versus nine to five. 

How would you convince? 

How would you induce companies in Salem to do that? 

Have kids have a company after Is taking a long countries. 

It's great! 

We will get us Okay subsidies, so you're basically going down the subsidy route, right? 

So you, you now sees you see different strategies, right? 

You see different, Uh, measures policy measures right, Illegal, Fiscal, right, fiscal, as tax. 

You do some subsidies, some sort of fiscal, but Financial, so you provide subsidies. 

I have a legal and Library life level hour, something just that, um, okay, I guess I don't. 

It's a little bit tricky because labor laws usually, um, Uh, stipulate the minimum maximum hours, but not the minimum hours. 

So usually they're already there. 

Yeah, so label is a little bit tricky, but not impossible. 

How would you do it? 

Which one would you prefer? 

You're not targeting directly the officers. 



Yesterday 1:58 PM
You're not targeting directly the officers. 



Yesterday 1:58 PM
I'm the governor. 

I can tell The BMA officers went to come. 

I have the authority. 

So, instead of starting with the private companies over which I have limited Authority, I would start with government officers, at least under the Bangkok City office. 

All right, so that's one that's quick. 

I can sign something Pretty much right away. 

Okay, so that's fine, but It's okay, I mean, it's not a lot of people you still need. 

You know, the the BMA offices are not in this Zone. 

Traffic is really bad here. 

I mean, it's bad over there as well, honestly, but but you still need the offices you need still need to convince the officers to do flexi hours. 

Who else would you talk to And and we're going beyond traffic at this point, right? 

We do, um, I travel. 

Operator is a BTS right. 

So now, you're not just talking to the offices or the employee employee years you. 

Now, talking to the service providers, the BTS, the MRT, the buses, maybe others. 

How would you talk to them Rush hours, right? 

So, you do again, going back to our original. 

Our previous discussion on Dynamic pricing, Right, it's. 

It's a little bit of Dynamic pricing, then right, so anybody who troubles off peak hours get cheaper tickets, which now, by the way, Tokyo does right. 

The C the monthly tickets, Um, have some non-rush hour monthly tickets. 

Uh, you can get cheaper ones if you travel during those time. 

And how would that create some positive effect over, Not just the officers, but also the employees? 

Sure, It's very decrease of of Peak time as other Transportation cellular increase the big time. 

Like, uh, it can really increase up in time a big time. 

Also, a public transport position. 

Well, if I have one and make sure that I will let the prices this kept, I have four more of my good point. 

So interesting. 

That's a very good way of thinking of in terms of system now. 

Good, good thinking, because you're not just thinking of one moment, right? 

If the peak hours, uh, I'll pick our tickets are expensive Instead of Shifting to the off-peak travel. 

Those people would decide to drive instead. 

So, what would you do? 

You would increase the price of driving, doing big hours as well, Like in the case of Singapore. 

So, so the idea here is that You're not looking at competition in one mode. 

The whole thing about travel demand management is that you have to look at multi model landscape. 

You assume that every single mode is competing against one another, And you need to raise the prices Accordingly, right? 

Yes. 

Um, because I would say most people have Styles like They don't have a choice. 

Yeah, when the other building because, like, you normally out of Conquest. 

I, I think, yeah, right, right? 

I don't know what meeting of the cheaper whether it will affect the people happily there, right, right? 

So, what would you do Because I mean this is not, by the way, All of these measures do not Cannot be effective alone anyway. 

So, how would you refine your friend's proposal to have that Dynamic pricing coming to play That you're concerned that some people do need to go to work At those hours? 

How would you do it? 

Well, you cannot force the officers. 

But, what can you do? 

There are a lot of measures obviously. 

That's. 

That's, But then you can actually reduce other types of taxes, So it's not just income taxes. 

Corporate taxes. 

There are property taxes. 

I had a lot of cities do have power over property taxes, Right? 

The government could provide direct subsidies To the officers or directly to The commuters Right as well, Right? 

And so the way it usually works is, if, what is that, The city government or the central government we talked to offices Do some sort of, you know, projects for them, uh, some sort of pilot projects shift, You know, the the employees. 

And then it's basically, you know, give, and take. 

If you do that, we'll give you this If you do those things we give you these. 

So, it's that sort of trade-off, so it's by the way. 

It's all You know. 

The measures that you guys mentioned combine, Just really no one single thing that can solve this problem. 

It has to be done collectively. 

Sometimes the employees are happier. 

Sometimes the employees are happier And happier. 

Employees are good for companies All right. 

This also, Um, companies subsidized Tickets as well, like in a lot of places. 

If you like, it's almost like student cards right on the BTS, Uh, you're probably a little. 

I think you cannot get student tickets because you're a little older, right? 

You're not less than 23 maybe you are, but anyway, we're not getting there in terms of age. 

But the point is that, um, Things like student cards, right? 

You can get company cards company monthly cards in a lot of places, right? 

And the subsidy comes from the government, so the money may not go directly to the offices when the money goes to the operators. 

And the subsidy comes from the government, so the money may not go directly to the offices when the money goes to the operators And but companies could be part of a program. 

Now you create a program in which certain companies participate, But what's good about providing, Um, reduce prices for, Um, Uh, public transportation For companies? 

By the way we've been, We've been trying to do here in Chula, but unsuccessfully. 

That's good. 

Unsuccessfully, I don't get. 

I don't get reduced price for using the DTS. 

I don't get it, But my colleagues get what Between parking, Right? 

So, what would be good for the companies if they get subsidized tickets And people use more public transportation? 

Think quick Linking today with last week. 

You can. 

You'd have people pay for it. 

You'd have people pay for it, Right? 

So the reduction Of the demand for parking Could be translated into subsidies for public transportation through the competence. 

That's, Uh, offices in a lot of places do all the time. 

I'm not here A lot of time. 

Not here, Right? 

So, that's That's one. 

Well, here they give free parking to Executives, maybe like two spots the Reds have to pay, but they don't subsidize, you know, they don't subsidize public transportation. 

They could. 

They could have done a little more, All right. 

So, that's Place the hours. 

What else can you do travel demand management Other than shifting the time? 

Well, obviously. 

Working from home, I went from home. 

Online meeting reduces Total travel demand. 

It wouldn't cross it would increase other costs, but that's that's a little bit different. 

Um, maybe you first and then go to my area. 

What I mentioned. 

I remember I actually. 

I've been in terms of making flexible holidays, and you can. 

It can spread the time. 

But by doing hybrid, You reduce the time To be in the office automatically. 

Yeah, right? 

So you reduce, you know, okay, I get your point. 

People still need to commute. 

Yes, oh, okay. 

Thank you, some people Zoom, and there's some people are gonna come in the office. 

I want you being that hybrid, though I didn't work online. 

Yeah, And so it's like, okay, so that's that's place the hours. 

Yeah, but these days, it tend to be like that day. 

You don't come, so you travel that day, right? 

So, it's work from home policy That that obviously reduces travel total travel demand into the office. 

Sorry, Maya. 

Let's come back to par sharing. 

That's that's one that's one. 

Um, that's one good answer. 

But let's stick to the the fleshy hours a little bit, just just with the digital. 

Do you know the the concept of rebound effect When you reduce and sort of when you read? 

Okay, let's give you a quick example By reducing the cost of The. 

Uh, the light Electric electricity cost People would actually use longer hours, Right, so you. 

So, even though you reduce the cost, the average cost per unit People tend to consume more. 

The total cost ended up increasing. 

That's happening a lot with energy, Right. 

Energy cost becomes lower. 

People are driving more, so you end up having a more a higher total cost Where ADHD consumption that's that. 

That's the. 

That's the cynical, ironic, unintentional part That one always have to consider, because this this thing called feedback loop, Right. 

You reduce the average cost, but you end up increasing the total cost. 

Okay, so In terms of trouble, What tends to happen, what could happen If you reduce the commuting trips? 

You can work from home, So people work from home. 

What do people end up doing? 

First, Do we consume less energy In total? 

Surprisingly, no, A company AC more efficient networking Because we spend more time at home. 

And you know, the average cost of providing energy? 

And you know, the average cost of providing energy, Or, you know, electricity? 

The bigger offices tend to be lower than at home. 

Yeah, so That's why we're saving the energy cost From traveling. 

But we're not saving the energy cost in total. 

That's sort of what, what's happening, but in terms of trouble. 

That's sort of what, what's happening, but in terms of trouble. 

I, I don't know if you know people who travel, uh, work from home a lot. 

What people do when they work from home? 

Oh, they were comfortable. 

I don't think this point they like to, like, ask delivery for them. 

Oh yeah, so that's why. 

So that's one And others. 

So, so I don't know if this study is still applicable. 

But when, um, Uh, work from home, became And Norm in the United States, even before covet People like, you know, this was Like. 

10 years ago in East, there was this survey in the United States, asking how, how many people, how many workers were from home. 

They're like, you know, 20 million people already worked from home at least once a week in the United States way before covet, And somebody collected data on those did some random survey. 

It turns out that The long trips have reduced obviously because they work from home. 

They don't. 



Yesterday 2:14 PM
They don't. 



Yesterday 2:14 PM
Travel from home to work anymore during during those days, but they do short trips. 

They go to Starbucks. 

They do a little bit of, you know, shopping, doing, you know, lunch time. 

They go pick up their kids, So that's that's the case. 

So it ends, it's being interesting. 

It's really interesting because it, like, people feel like they have time. 

Now, They they can do other trips now. 

Oh, we have time, let's fuel those times instead of, like, oh, I have time, I sit at home, read a book. 

No, they add more activities into the that that time, right? 

So that's kind of interesting. 

So, it turns out that we're not really saving a lot of travel time, You know, in total. 

But people use that time for other purposes. 

I haven't been, you know, updating my literature on this, so I, I don't know if you know things have changed, but your point is really interesting about in people ordering more delivery stuff, so you end up having derived demand, right? 

But not yours. 

Other people are traveling for you. 

So, so, so that's kind of the implication of this flexible hours and reduced total trouble. 

Demand, all right, share disability. 

So that's another way, But is shared Mobility. 

Yeah, I guess it's demand, but it's it's sort of Supply as well, Right? 

But I guess, Este man, you aggregatedly man. 

Okay, yeah, so that's good. 

So you aggregate to the man because the point of Traffic congestion. 

It's not really Is. 

It's not about the cars and the vehicles themselves, But it's mostly because A single person usage The cars could fit at least. 

Four people Is not five, but usually there's only one Right. 

So, in terms of traffic, demand management, traffic management, What do we do, what, what do you, what do you see in several places around the world, dealing with this single person, Which stands for, Explain what it is first so people can help. 

It's a What things does he need for power the global or? 

Yeah, you see, everybody has seen it right. 

The HOV lane. 

What does it stand for? 

So it's hard, right? 

It's a half late use. 

It's like so. 

It's like, so, Like, Let's say, I enjoy it. 

And those of people standing in their side wall. 

You can pay them to get in your car to pass through. 

Therefore, Isn't it amazing? 

So, yeah, and it's a real business. 

As a kid, usually it's a person like. 

As a kid, Like, I've I saw that operation. 

It's fascinating, right? 

Like, we were on. 

We were on a sort of study tour or something. 

And, you know, Professor pointed that out, too. 

It's not just in Jakarta. 

It's at other places, too. 

Maybe I think I was in Bandung anyway, but basically There was that kid. 

Like, it's not just one, They they're letting out, And this one just before just before the HOV lane. 

Yeah, don't like me. 

Well, I mean, a driver would pick up this kid so they were together in all the HOV lane to the Anderson. 

Well, I mean, a driver would pick up this kid, so they were together in all the HOV lane to the Anderson. 

So, my question was, like, how did it get back? 

There's HOV on both sides, Of course. 

They're so smart, So they go there. 

They cut off well. 

The dangerous part is that they have to cross. 

I was always safety issue there, so it's a risky business. 

There. 

This is still happening. 

No, no, not anymore, right? 

And that was a long time ago, but I was, like, wow, you know, entrepreneurial, So it's kind of interesting with a concession pricing, You know? 

Like, oh well, I won't tell you, but what else, dude, what? 

What else do you do? 

Do traffic demand manager sometimes think of sort of similar to this? 

And we tried. 

We tried that in Bangkok as well in China. 

Sorry, Vaseline, yeah, okay, so that was really similar to HOV. 

What else? 

Okay, so, so that's new, right? 

The its right, the intelligent transport, um system. 

I'm a traffic system, right? 

So you adjust according to, you know, the the traffic, right? 

Because you're just, but you have to do it. 

It's sort of really sort of system level, because if you so, and this is the Perpetual debate between traffic police, the traffic police, and the IGS people. 

Because traffic police will see only their their road, so they see no hers. 

They let the car like they blow the whistle, go go, go go, right? 

That's traffic. 

Demand management right at the spot level, but what could be the problem with that kind of thinking Because they don't see other intersections? 

Other traffic lights so you could release the whole traffic and get stuck there, and that would have some cascading effects on other lanes. 

Other streets because they don't see because it's what they call the local optimization but not Global or system level optimization, Right? 

Because when you when you optimize only one row. 

Obviously, Traffic police see only Light or one intersection. 

He would optimize that location, But he wouldn't know what's happening in other parts, Right? 

Other parts of the city so he could release the whole traffic where they got stuck in one place and its Warriors, Right? 

So You know the reason why the whole smart City thing is becoming more popular everywhere in the world is because they could do system level or city level optimization. 

You may let people stick there longer, but it's better at the city level. 

So you do traffic demand management at the city level instead of at the intersection level, Right? 

So that's, that's the different Ways of thinking. 

But what else can we do? 

What else has been done? 

Think of your own City. 

I know that Manila has done this. 

Still, I don't know if Boston has done this a long time ago. 

License plate. 

What can we do about license plate? 

Right on there until I think you're nice. 

Yes, It's the odd number and the even number. 

And then People just change the plates or have two cars All right. 

So that was sort of the original idea of traffic demand management. 

So that was sort of the original idea of traffic demand management. 

Are you all only allowed? 

You know, like, you know, um, even number, um, license plates in certain days, and then change and other days People who drive they have the money, So they have either two license plates, or They have few cars. 

The time to sort of look when we're trying. 

Yeah, Yeah, it's a collective action problem, right? 

Yeah, it's very problematic, because that's why I mean Transportation planning or Mobility planning Is best done at the Metro level like Metro level Metropolitan level, Right? 

I mean, it's very difficult, Very difficult. 

Um, You could, if you know, the whole Metro is integrated somewhat in terms of planning in terms of operation, Right. 

Like, in the case of Bangkok. 

The BMA doesn't really have any say, once you get to non-tabulary or other provinces, so that's why London, we have to do like, you know, the greater London, right, the whole, um, you know, area? 

But even so, you know, like, Tokyo is still limited to Tokyo Metro, and then you know, the actual urban region is much, much bigger than that. 

So that requires, um, you know, um, sort of higher level government to do that work. 

It could be a regional government, uh, if there's a, you know, a space for that or the national government would just come in and do the planning and operation Of the whole Administration. 

So, What else? 

What else? 

Before we take a break, No, no, no, it's. 

You can. 

We do four minutes more, and then we take away. 

I had unique take a break today. 

What else do we do for traffic demand management one more? 

What else do we do for traffic demand management? 

One more Attit Having a lot of like one-way levels at certain times. 

Uh, yeah, certain directions, some certain times easily, right? 

Always, you can't turn right, right? 

Peak hours, right? 

This direction, right? 

Adjustments of regulations? 

Yeah, so adjustment of traffic rules actually is part of traffic, demand management as well, right? 

So, because you want to shift the whole point, is your answer? 

Shift the time and space of the flow, Right? 

So, you, you? 

That's the basis, right? 

If you don't think You know, you can adjust the total Supply, but you can shift the availability of the supply according to the demand. 

So, so that's one now. 

Um, We're talking primarily, Um, about the shift of the total flow and the space and time of the flow, but we didn't really talk much about the speed, the flow Up. 

Now, that's kind of interesting, because Um, the speed of the flow because traffic congestion, It's sometimes hard to even Define what it is. 

Because if you continue to To move forward, But at lower speed versus Fast stop, And for a long, long time and fast and stopped for a long, long time. 

Like, Bangkok. 

It's not so good Because you see here, like traffic light is like three minutes. 

Like, most places good. 

Most good places don't do that, Right? 

Why? 

Because it's bad for the system level optimization In general. 

But this, also, in terms of um. 

Um, and then we can come back to the trouble demand management, and then we're gonna get into Road pricing. 

Okay, so let's figure 10 minute break. 

Okay, so let's figure 10 minute break. 

Shh, My cap is just yeah, All right. 

So, Trouble demand management Anything that we just discussed could probably be applied to other modes of transportation as well. 

One way of doing it is pricing You charge people at different times. 

There's some tricky part about Pricing people differently, And I want to cover something Not directly covered by your friends. 

I mean, I'm not repeating, you know, the good presentation already, so that's the basics. 

Let's talk about pricing and how it has some moral An ethical implications, He argument. 

The general argument for Road pricing is basically Optimization of limited Supply, so you can, Um, you utilize the Um, the, the limited Supply, Uh, more efficiently, Right, the roads, Uh, in the buses And The? 



Yesterday 2:47 PM
The roads, Uh, in the buses And The key? 



Yesterday 2:47 PM
As illustrated by the case of both London and Um And Singapore, is that the money raised through congestion pricing have to be put into public transportation, Not just in terms of Revenue generation, but But, um, Demonstration of the, You know, The, the, the positive effects that come out of somebody else's misery, basically right, Because That's very political. 

As you can see in, well, except for in the case of Singapore, or because we know that And the same foreign government is very strong, So generally popular, Um, opposition means. 

Granted, they mean something that less. 

But even in case of Sweden, You saw that at the beginning, The opposition Was great, Right? 

People opposed to this kind of like, Measure if you you pay for the road. 

I mean, why is that? 

Why do we have that? 

Why do people why generally are people opposed to For congestion? 

It's their right to be on the road. 

That's one Which is showing the hidden cost of concession. 

Well, it does show, but why are people opposed to it Because people feel it's that right, Almost human, right? 

I'm born with the free access to the road. 

It's not just the right, but also it's free. 

Roads are supposed to be free, Even though there are hidden costs that you say, Right? 

But as your your presentation shows, We want to internalize the external costs that the hidden social costs from driving. 

So, Theoretically speaking, Congestion pricing, No debate. 

In terms of efficiency, You know, normal or not, not normal, but mainstream, um, Neoclassical economics. 

Anybody would agree that congestion pricing is a good measure You're supposed to do it. 

Politically, it's very difficult, Right? 

Because people feel like, Why are we paying for this, But as as people just being selfish, or how would you argue? 

Opposition to Congestion pricing. 

Play. 

Hey, let's play Devil's Advocate here. 

How would you argue, it's my right, you said, it's not your right? 

You're not born with it. 

Okay, all right, Right? 

I paid for it. 

I paid for it. 

Why not white modeling? 

Why not one more lame? 

How would you justify the fact that, you know, we're all supposed to be free, but then you said, no, there are hidden cost, so some people will say, but I paid for it. 

How would you justify the fact that you know we're all supposed to be free, but then you said, no, there are hidden cost, so some people will say, but I paid for it. 

Do you really pay for it, like toll roads, highways? 

Like you're not, we're not paying, are we? 

Well, we kind of are. 

Where you, you are paying the smile Taxes, right? 

We pay taxes, even you guys pay taxes, right? 

The vat value added taxes every, every time when you go to 7-Eleven. 

You're paying for the roads. 

So, one one could argue One could argue that stretch That. 

Hey, I paid vat. 

I already paid taxes to you, the government. 

No, you're using the money from me Building the road. 

So, why do I have to pay for it again, But it's the interesting part? 

Is that People don't seem to mind when it's a new highway, The Toro, the expressway, people, women pay for it, willing to pay for it. 

So, what's the difference there between a new road build As a toll road and nap? 

People are not being like, no, I'm not paying for the Torah, But for a world like this People are against it. 

Baseball with a toll road because a normal option, I guess as well. 

So, you always, even if you are willing to pay it, you always know I have the option. 

Okay, okay, Okay? 

I don't know. 

They, I behaviorally ended this, uh, current mentally. 

I was born, and I grew up seeing it being free. 

Now, you're charging me And versus the other one. 

Like, oh, that's new. 

Okay, they're charging you. 

Okay, fine. 

So, mentally, it's interesting. 

No, both are obviously correct. 

Um, I'm not gonna draw this for you. 

But um, In in again basic um Microeconomics or public economics, You know, there's this concept of public goods, Right? 

So, There are two Dimensions that you can think of. 

One is called Exclusivity, And the other is rivalry Right. 

Exclusiveness is when, When I drink this, when I drink this, Nobody else can drink it at the same time. 

And once I drank it, there's less for you to drink. 

This is private. 

Good. 

This is private. 

Good. 

Okay, so exclusivity and rivalry Arrival, Meaning You can exclude somebody from consuming the goods. 

And once the goods is consumed, there's less for other people to consume. 

That's public. 

That's private goods. 

The polar opposite would be public goods, At least in this room. 

For now, I'm consuming the light. 

I'm inhaling the air. 

It doesn't mean that there's less light for you, And this doesn't mean there's less air for you, Right? 

So, that's sort of public. 

That's sort of public. 

Okay, So these are two opposites, But then There are some things like, you know, um, Uh, uh, Uh, Club Goods, Club Goods. 

You go into a club, you enjoy the music. 

Like other people, you don't pay more, but you pay the entry fee, Right? 

So that's Club goods or tall Goods. 

Like tollways, you know, expressways, Cable TVs, those are club Goods Right, and then Another one Is basically you cannot exclude people from using. 

But once people use it, there's less for other people like Clean hair, Uh, you know, once you pollute it, it's common pool resources like water in the river, A public river. 

If people use it, it's less for other people to use it, but you cannot exclude the public from using it. 

So, these are the four categories. 

But you understand the world. 

But you understand the world In a sort of interesting way. 

Once you know this category, These categories. 

Now, why is this related to congestion pricing And the road? 

A lot of people think of the road as public goods, Right? 

Because they think of roads as free, And anybody can use it. 

But most people don't realize that roads are not free, and It's rival Because one car Going into the road. 

There's less space For the next car, Right? 

So, roads are actually not public goods at all, Right? 

So, in a way, we think roads are public goods, but they're actually not Strictly speaking, because the more cars getting into the road, The less spell is for other people to drive, Right? 

So, but we're not making it club Goods, Right. 

Unlike toll roads, congestion pricing in a way is always making it like, almost like a club gun, Right. 

You need to pay to get into the city center, otherwise you cannot get in. 

It's anyway, internalizing the cost but is shifted. 

The goods, the roads Into a type of clap gun. 

Okay, now In terms of economic efficiency. 

It's fine. 

It's pretty short. 

It's pretty clear from the cases of Singapore, Sweden, London, that if you do it right, it's good for the environment. 

It helps promote or subsidize the, Uh, subsidized public transportation, Right? 

So, That's the basics. 

That's what you can read in the literature. 

In addition to political opposition, How would you be? 

How would you oppose Congestion pricing if this were to be adopted? 

Bangkok, Austin, Paris, Manila, Jakarta. 

Let's see, that's your show Or other cities in China. 

I don't think Due to congestion pricing Chinese cities. 

I haven't seen cases In Chinese cities. 

I don't, I haven't heard, but maybe there are, I don't know, but I haven't heard. 

Usually, it's like, yeah, usually, it's Singapore, you know, London, Sweden? 

All that Unfair for four people unfair for poor people. 

Why? 

Because, like, for people and just and deadly eye on proxyga city, these people can manage to pay. 

But for those people, they lose that job Well. 

They may not lose their jobs, but it's more expensive for them to travel. 

If there's no alternative this if there's no, Um, uh, uh, you know, affordable alternatives have Right? 

Like, for example, it's very I, I can see it. 

Why? 

It's hard in the United States, because public transportation like Bangkok as well, because public transportation is bad, Right. 

So, public transportation bad and expensive. 

In the case of Bangkok, and if you do congestion pricing, it will be even more difficult for people to get into the city at an affordable rate Because automatically you screen. 

Now, people who cannot afford right, because you increase the the cost of trouble. 

So, there's that Just this implications when it comes to Road pricing. 

If done Sort of ice, you know, in a sort of isolated way, if not done right, with other improvements of public transportation, Okay. 

But what else would you argue for? 

In fact, I can tell you um, what's? 

Uh, what's on the table here? 

So, You know, this concept of congestion pricing. 

I think I learned about it in probably 30 years ago, And a lot of cities were trying to implement that. 

Obviously, London tried successfully Singapore, but There's still thousands of thousands of cities around the world that have not implemented it, right? 

So, it must be super difficult, Super super difficult to do this thing called concession pricing. 

So, um, the Thai government, and obviously, Scholars here, have, you know, done so many, um, studies, Uh, projects to implement it And the latest version As the UK Pat Programmed. 

So, UK Pat is a, you know, the British, the United Kingdom government, the UK, Uh, packed as in Partnerships for acceleration of carbon, something, something P-A-C-T, and they have UK packed programs in Latin Manila as well in Jakarta as well. 

Actually, I know for sure. 

In Jakarta, they have a UK packed program there. 

So, the UK Pat program in Bang Club is being Is it's ongoing And and congestion pricing is part of your keypad initiative, And they want to implement congestion and pricing back on, Which is really challenging, Which is challenging. 

So, What do you see could be the problem Or the obstacles? 

The challenges in implementing projection pricing in Bangkok? 



Yesterday 3:02 PM
Uh, negative activities explodies, Right? 

But Your answer is correct already, but expanded. 

Why high income Hawaii income level matters? 

Why? 

So, your argument is, so if I, um, you know, I'm sorry, I have to sort of mansplanish. 

Um, I'll always win it. 

Um, Sweden. 

It's rich London is Rich relatively. 

Bangkok is poor. 

That's why we should not. 

We cannot do congestion pricing in background. 

That's all the plain logical argument. 

I know that it's more refined. 

Could you refine them? 

Yeah, so it's the income inequality, Right? 

It's income, inequality, and not just the part about, Uh, you know, income level. 

But the income level does matter too, though. 

How, how income level matters when it comes to congestion pricing measure? 

Look out. 

What do you see Sorry? 

Okay, so, so there are a few proposals in Bangkok in the past. 

I don't know that UK Patel version because I'm not in the team. 

Um, The GI is that the German agency, Uh, in that report, and my colleague helped in that project. 

I propose a few options, they're you know. 

There are many different ways. 

Like, uh, you can make a coordinate Gaston, where you make some sort of line. 

It depends on, you know, the geography. 

That's the kind of thing you could do, right, because you need. 

That's the kind of thing you could do, right, because you need You need to be able to control the access of what, Um, so anyway, as you usually will have some sort of like, uh, a clear geographical or Road boundary, Right? 

If you have like hundreds, Soils, and hundreds of, You know roads, it's difficult. 

This is, it's much easier with the, you know, iot, right? 

The Internet of Things. 

You can put sensors and everywhere much easier than before, Uh, you know, before the time of this Smart City, You know, equipments, and and Technologies you have to do the gate, Right, like a Torah, which is very, you know, inefficient. 

So, that's why people hated it. 

But now You drive through. 

You don't need a car. 

They already review a license plate, right? 

I mean, the recording stop and flow here. 

Like, Like the technical part is super easy at this, And you can even monitor your cell phone to God's sake, right? 

So, that's not a problem. 

So, the problem now becomes more political. 

Socioeconomic, So Becca, what do you think would be the challenge for using congestion pricing, then If taking into account both income level and inequality? 

Look at the roads. 

What vehicles do you see Personal vehicle? 

Well, it's not just personal vehicles. 

Well, obviously, this personal vehicles. 

What? 

What kinds of cars do you see? 

It's not just cars, Right? 

You see, tuk-tuks. 

You see tuk-tuks, You see Motorcycles, You see, pickup trucks Right, technically Not difficult at all to charge them. 

But how would you charge them? 

Oh my God, and who, and would you be successful? 

Well, we don't know. 

You can't probably charge them. 

Yeah, right? 

But, but think first in terms of equity. 

How would you charge The road? 

How would you charge it normally in congestion? 

Pricing. 

Is it one car one price? 

Is it the type of car? 

No, I'm asking you, how would you charge it because I mean for the highway, right? 

Like, the four-wheeled car personal car, right? 

You see the the chart, a Singapore, right, you know, like, that's, that's not for congestion, price, and that's for the, you know, the certificate, but it's the same logic. 

The interesting part is that the bus is cheaper, right? 

Because it's public, But anyway. 

So, how would you charge, Um, you know for congestion? 

What is hard types, but engine types? 

Well, that's the interesting part. 

Would you do the engine type as well. 

Yeah, and all energy and charge more because the autopilot a lot. 

So, that's the tricky part. 

Are you? 

Are we charging the car for usage? 

Are we charging the car from ownership? 

Please, remember, I, I mentioned this last week, Basic stats. 

Do you even know how many cars per capita, Your city or country Have? 

Yes, Usually. 

It's a, you know, it's not by 100. 

It's by 1000 statistics like number of car slash vehicle per Um, you know, persons Guess Thailand. 

Guess China. 

Guess the United States. 

That's the Philippines. 

Oh my God, don't search, I guess. 

150, 150 Per 1000, So that's about 1.5 persons, Right? 

I want a car or a vehicle. 

I, I said, a car or a vehicle. 

No, no, but it could be either so equal a vehicle. 

Oh, okay, I have to ask a motorcycle, which is a lot, so a car is 150 yeah, and then what would be recall? 

Obviously, a vehicle or a vehicle. 

I would say like 500, so that's about. 

So, if Use correct right, Among 10 people 1.5 would own a car Right, and five people would own some sort of vehicle, including motorcycles. 

This is an argument, it's wrong. 

But yeah, but it's, it's, it's, I don't know. 

I'm not telling you yet, But this is the kind of thing you should know. 

How about China, The whole China? 

I'm not talking about the city. 

Oh, that's. 

That's a lot, though. 

That's like one point, something billion vehicles in China. 

That's a little bit too easy. 

No, still, not that many. 

You don't have one point. 

What's the population of China now 1.2 billion, right, three, three, four now? 

Okay, sorry. 

I don't think you have 1.4 billion vehicles in China yet, Yet I don't know, but I, I don't know. 

I don't know, um, I don't know. 

Um, You know, electric bicycles, But I, I kind of know moderate vehicles. 

Guess where, I mean, you know, And that the country that has the the region that has the highest is actually very surprising, but? 

Well, that's the kind of Number that you should know, Right? 

I mean, come on, you're going to become an urbanist. 

Uh, so let's do comparison Do I see in comparison as that? 

Well, let's compare Thailand and United States. 

Which one has higher Ownership? 

United States, the United States, all right, make it more difficult. 

Which one has More vehicle ownership? 

Including motorcycles, yeah, per yeah, per 1000 per person. 

Yeah, per capita. 

It's still in the United States. 

Yes, I forgot that United States of it. 

Yay, no. 

But we do per capita. 

It doesn't matter how big it's still per capita, but There's this place that has higher, Uh, per capita vehicle than the United States. 

And I'm not, you know, I'm getting. 

I'm not getting to politics here. 

It's actually Taiwan. 

Whether or not you count Taiwan as part of China, Taiwan has more than 660 vehicle per person. 

It's huge, But you're surprisingly, though. 

Why am I saying this because? 

Why am I saying this because When you think about Road coming back to Road pricing or charge a congestion pricing Congestion pricing in the very Relatively straightforward Place, like Singapore, You don't see a lot of motorcycle tasks motorcycles in Singapore. 

There are, And obviously, they're not charging electric bikes. 

They're not charging The charging cars Like moderate vehicles, Right? 

But If you were to do it in Bangkok, The model, you know, complexities. 

It's a pretty tough calculation to do, Because then I'm not talking about technical talking about the principle. 

Why do we charge people for using the road again? 

Your externalities. 

What type of externality are you talking about? 

Be specific. 

What type of externality Are you talking about the road space, or you're talking about externalities in terms of pollution? 

These are two different things, Right? 

Because it goes back to his point about the engine, You could drive Sorry about hideous, Um Tesla truck. 

It's so ugly, But it's so interesting, though. 

Have you seen it? 

It's like it's so ugly, but it's like you have to look at it. 

Yeah, Tesla. 

It's called a truck, right? 

It's Tesla truck. 

So many times in Boston, like you're so ugly, that is so interesting. 

So many times in Boston, like you're so ugly that is so interesting, But you see Is a truck supposedly. 

Do you charge it more, though, Because of this space? 

Or is it because of the pollution, or is it because of the energy It uses? 

So it goes back to the point the principle of it. 

Why do we charge People For using Cars on the road? 

Is it the pollution? 

Is it the pollution? 

Is it energy, Which is just all of it? 

Is it all of Then you need some sort of Formula To charge? 

Then you need to figure out The engine, The age, The mileage, or the kilometer. 

It's getting really complicated there, Right? 

All right. 

Would you charge motorcycles You would? 

Who else would not charge motorcycle For congestion, though? 

Yeah, they're annoying. 

Yes, I know, we want to charge them for being so annoying, but you cannot add that. 

Well, I mean, you can add it, I guess. 

Like, annoying travel Behavior? 

No, but that's not the usual. 

What is that, but I mean, I'm not saying you're wrong, but Can you argue a little bit? 

Why? 

No, let's wait, I want to. 

I want to hear from you, and then other people can help. 

Why would you want to argue, like, why would you want to charge motorcycles congestion pricing? 

Um, they, I think they, they changed their ages. 

So, it's very, very nonsive and don't want. 

And that kind of cycle should be just more so, but but you're charging it for not congestion, but for pollution, right? 

No, it's fine. 

It's like more annoying, More poll. 

It's like more annoying, More polluted. 

Okay, no, but this is the thing. 

If we are measuring We, if we are we, if we are charging him according to amount of pollution, That's gonna be Less than a Tesla car. 

Is that okay or the BYD card? 

Is that acceptable to you? 

Why not, Because because it releases more pollution than a BYD car? 

Okay, so out of your help, like, contribute. 

Oh yeah, and then you're with you. 

Like to purchase the prices, The power of the engine, Sure. 

Like, because you could have a high power but less pollution. 



Yesterday 3:20 PM
Like, because you could have a high power but less pollution. 



Yesterday 3:20 PM
I'm in technologically speaking, right? 

Are we concerned about the power? 

Are we concerned about the pollution because you're right? 

The power from the pollution? 

That's called the coupling. 

That's called the coupling. 

Right, so faster is even better because it's efficient use of this space. 

So, you're charging people for Less safety, so we have to add safety to the criteria of congestion pricing, which has never been the case by the way. 

So sorry, I'm pushing you here, right? 

Because you keep adding the criteria, but congestion pressing was never relied on. 

Safetiness. 

Congestional pressing was primarily on the type of car, Right? 

Safety was not criteria. 

Okay, you What you're saying. 

We're sounding not just like you wanted to regulate into the noise, so it's maybe a question. 

Congested areas are actually safer than less congested areas. 

Yeah, in terms of in terms sorry in terms of severity of accident, Right. 

Once you crash, you die. 

Once you crash, you die. 

So, the, you know, the? 

The rate of accident is low, But the percentage of mortality was severity of acid in his heart. 

Because the speed is so fast, so congested area have accidents obviously, Right? 

But it doesn't mean that the you know other places Are safer, So usually safety Is not part of congestion. 

Pricing rationale. 

You cannot use safety for congestion. 

Pricing rationale, that's a different story in itself. 

For me, uh, the pollution does not come from the view of the engine at all. 

It comes from the weight of the vehicle, the brakes, the wheels, and that's also cost pollution. 

Yeah, since, uh, motorcycle and way less way than EV Vehicles. 

Maybe we should charge less so. 

That's correct. 

Pollution actually is not just emission, Right? 

Everything, Like the friction, the tension inside manufacturing. 

It's more polluted when you wait As congested areas. 

Remember, when you like, that's why a lot of people say, when you park, please shut off your engine. 

Turn off your engine because a lot of people do here. 

It's really bad, right? 

They wait for your. 

They wait for their friends, the family. 

So, it's back. 

So it's back, But what else? 

No, I mean I, so he's arguing for Less for motorcycles. 

But you could. 

Your arcade is for more. 

For the um, In terms of like they're taking over Here. 

Um, so to even if you have like a point in the motorcycles, They'll be relaxed. 

But don't Physically less adjustment or less. 

Picking up more space like, You're okay. 

So with that. 

So I'm this is a very entertaining sort of brain. 

Exercise. 

Would that incentivize people to write more motorcycles And get crash more, Right? 

So, as you said, safety becomes a problem. 

Now, like, oh, I shouldn't drive a car because I recharge more. 

Oh, let's do motorcycles. 

In fact, it's kind of interesting because I'm supposed to help with it with Chula, uh, with a parking policy we're discussing it. 

There are a few, um, staff people who actually own cars, and they bring their cars here. 

But while they're here, they use motorcycles to go everywhere. 

So, it's kind of interesting sort of, you know, logic, right? 

People see the opportunity. 

People see the opportunity, So that's one. 

Now, Obviously, this is, this is exactly The issues that are being debated To implement something supposedly as simple as congestion pricing. 

It places that's so diverse, like Bangkok, but also in terms of politics. 

Why would you think it's going to be super difficult to read here? 

Politics. 

Yeah, Why would it be difficult to do here? 

Yeah, well, I mean. 

Um, Yeah, and this is middle class politics, right? 

Um, middle class politics, you know, middle class tend to be Have stronger and bigger voices, giving out the rich. 

There are fewer people out there, So if a lot of people are affected, They tend to voice louder, Right? 

But so, So help the UK packs people here. 

How would you do it? 

So, let's help them. 

Here We need all the. 

Here, We know the case of Jakarta that people cheat a little bit, The system Right, and uh, Thai people were teaching matter myself. 

So, we know that that's going to happen. 

How would you do it? 

Starting stages. 

Okay, Obviously, staging is critical. 

How will you start Start for the most epic ones first? 

Like, really old cars, Really old car, but isn't that like bad? 

Also, because all cars tend to be driven by poor people With a nice politics, So you don't care good. 

We we took those first, and let, uh, and then go up up after other people. 

Yeah, and, and then this. 

It's kind of hard to do all cars first, because congestion pricing you need the zone, So the technology will have to be able to identify, oh, new car. 

That's okay. 

Old car, So the the installation cost would be so high and the revenue would be so little. 

So the the effect of controlling congestion Would be less than the cost of installation. 

It's very expensive, you know? 

These Technologies, we don't own them. 

Probably, we'll buy from the UK because it's the UK hat. 

A very cynical by the way. 

So, As you know by now, but how would you do it? 

Where would you start? 

The case of, Um, you don't have to share, but did you go back to the The Swedish Lessons? 

So, Let's look at the Swedish experience. 

I guess we need to do some survey first. 

I guess The opposition will probably be like 90, if not 95, Right. 

I hope you know, Tend to us in. 

This class was saying yes, so that's 0.01 Right, at least. 

And then okay. 

What will we do? 

What will we do? 

Where would you start Where which you start in Bangkok? 

Strategically or technically speaking, where would you start in Bangkok? 

You know a little bit of Bangkok now, so You go for the biggest one? 

Damn it! 

Let's go for the biggest fish. 

That's one option not saying it's wrong, But other tactical choices Even bigger fish, you know, like they didn't. 

They try a little bit of, uh, last year, attentaton and his team. 

One of my students, actually. 

So, from graduating from here, there was this school mid-road of the size, sorry. 

39. 

I think, Um, so it's like, um, overnight. 

So the block only because you know if you know, You know, Thai Sons? 

There's no place for a pedestrian, Right? 

So the student graduated from here working for chances. 

Team decided to do this experiment, Widening the space for pedestrians usually is the Japanese. 

And you know, the people in circumvent 39 To walk? 

There's a lot of people walking there, But they reduce the lane for the carbs, and it turned out that that's soy is the not just a normal little sword is the soil that connects to convince with Pittsburgh Road, So people complain, like, got thousands of thousands of thousands and the governor doesn't overnight. 

Had to go and remove the experiment within a few hours. 

It created, like, super crazy uproar, Right? 

People were complaining, It's yeah, it's. 

It's a fascinating if if you can find it in English, send it to your friend. 

Uh, it's it's That's that, that one day, which is so, so bad, like, I went to have dinner with somebody from the U.S embassy. 

He was complaining from the beginning until the very end of the dinner, And he was not even driving. 

I'm, like, okay, interesting now. 

So, this is the interesting part. 

Where would you start? 

It was a good idea. 

It was a good idea, And it's the most useful place. 

It's the most useful place for The Pedestrians because The cats and the Japanese and people. 

They're so sorry that a lot of people walk it's Bts. 

It's the most useful spot, And yet Yet is the most opposition as most opposed location too. 

So what was wrong with that and what could be wrong with implementing congestion pricing in Scuba? 

No, no, Let's step out. 

Why would you do it? 

Piata, and why would you do? 

It Is only here, though, this is. 

Which one your team run? 

Oh, okay, Okay. 

I love it. 

I love it. 

I'm not saying your answer was wrong, but his answer is a little bit more advanced. 

There's options. 

People can take the BTS. 

You take the buses. 

Okay, good. 

All right. 

Because there are no options, please talk about people. 

Yeah, Yeah, and there is not in information before people drive there. 

They're, like, oh, it changed. 

Oh, I'm stuck here for three hours. 

And, you know, sorry, all the French words coming out, You know? 

Like, people were really crazy on. 

I was like, what's happening in Bangkok because people were like complaining on all social media Platforms just for that day? 

It's like, It's like the earthquake, you know, that's a pancake. 

All right, but where else would you do? 

Cuz you're going big, Anybody else would not go like smaller. 

Cuz strategy Is about trade-offs. 

Strategy Is about. 

How would you get what you want at different stages, Right? 

You're going big Because you think people have Alternatives. 

That's a good rationale. 

I don't have any problem with that, but it could also create the biggest, Um, opposition, not because they don't have options, But because They're rich people. 

They're the middle class. 

They don't want to take the bus or the BTS, Right? 

You assume that people have options, they say, oh, it's more expensive. 

All right, I don't have any problem taking the BTS. 

Oh no, my friends must say no. 

My size. 

My home is too far from BTS I need to drive anyway, Right. 

Is the feeder system Is the access in egress problems? 

There You charge me using the, Uh. 

He checked the main road of hornyotin is, Yeah, you said, I have Alternatives, but I don't Do. 

I walk from my house to the BTS. 

It's 2 km. 

I drive, I complain. 

Your experiment fails. 

That's The way one should Put in Thinking, right, who's going to oppose you do stakeholder analysis, right? 

So, why would you do it? 



Yesterday 3:37 PM
So, why would you do it? 



Yesterday 3:37 PM
Where would you do it? 

Oh, that's even bigger. 

Yeah, The UK packed, Uh, and before that, the GIS app was actually targeting Satan. 

Just go for it. 

You may as well, No, but that's that. 

That's, that's love to experiment. 

That's the idea. 

Eventually, you need to start with some smaller experiments. 

Not only opposition, you need to test the systems, Even though I say technology is a good. 

Now, you still need to customize the Technologies the systems have to be fine-tuned, Right? 

You still need to do a lot of things before you can go full blown. 

Oh sorry, That was one idea. 

Yeah, because it has like cultural value, right? 

So, Why would you do it Old Town? 

Why would you want to do it there as like a clearly defined border, so it has some borders yet? 

Okay, A lot of roads. 

But yeah, you can do it. 

Yeah, because there are Bridges Okay, and then and then, uh, we, we can add the cultural when value the scenery into the reasons You cannot already, right? 

Yeah, there's a temple there. 

Okay, there's a temper there, Mr palaces temples, I guess. 

Yeah, the third one is life is not the super super rich area Tiger, the love of their not super rich before, but like old time people, And it was the place is well connected by the bus. 

Okay, Anyway. 

These are all proposals by the way. 

Yeah, I mean, they're all posters Any place even smaller. 

Our special events special event, uh, interesting, like more special thing in the showcase. 

Anything twice small recently. 

For for that, especially events? 

For for that, especially events. 

Let them drive, but you charge a lot more. 

Let them drive, but you charge a lot more. 

Then you add to The control of parking, Like, as I said last week, You do condition pricing. 

That's a very Advanced level of TDM That's really Advanced. 

The reason why they're probably less than five cities around the world that are successful? 

So, I guess? 

So, I guess I don't need that exception logically. 

Speaking, Right? 

Anika City Charges parking. 

That's my. 

That's my role. 

Yeah, when people ask me, like, oh, tell me about, you know, what's? 

What's my criteria of a good City? 

Oh, the charge Market. 

The charge for parking. 

Think of any good city that doesn't charge parking. 

Do you have? 

Do you know any of any good good? 

Well, find one for me. 

Well, find one for me. 

Find one for me, Because I, yeah, City, though not town. 

Is there a few cute towns that don't charge, but a lot of Q-Towns do? 

Anyway, My argument. 

And this is my personal argument is that We are trying to run before we even before We are not angry. 

I don't think we got to be successful in progestion pricing. 

It is. 

It is, And we're now trying to go Jump to the level congestion pricing. 

By the way, this is not public. 

I cannot say this L. 

Now, I mean out loud here, but not publicly because people are scream at me. 

No, I, it's. 

It's difficult, But but you see my point. 

In any case, your idea, your idea, everybody ideas good, Just a matter of experimentation, we know that eventually we will need to do some sort of TDM through pricing, Because that's a clear, uh, instrument. 

But we cannot think that, Um, congestion pricing is The solution that word solves everything. 

We always need other Solutions Parking, Right? 

Charging for parking, Parking adjustments in terms of, you know, space time. 

We also need subsidies Whenever you and you mention subsidies because you cannot just internalize the costs Economists. 

Sometimes, they say, just internalizing costs. 

People will be rational. 

No, it's difficult If you are going to internalize the external costs. 

You also have to think of Set up the reverse effects That people could do. 

People are smart. 

They find a second license plate. 

They may buy a second car. 

They may hire a kid to be on the car for the HOV lane, Right? 

They find ways You need to incentivize them through some sort of subsidization Subsidize. 

Other lanes you pay? 

Other lanes. 

You pay Something like that, right? 

So you need you always need the combination of different measures together. 

Obviously, you need the fiscal Measures, You know, like taxes. 

Fees, like in this case of Singapore, right, you need the certificate to buy and far, or in the case of Tokyo, you need a certificate to, Uh, a parking certificate before you buy. 

So, all these measures have to be in place so that we would feel or people would feel like it's costly. 

It's more costly To And Opera or driver car. 

By the way, Um, I think Japan, The car ownership rate is about 660 years, Which is very hard, Which is very, very high, You know? 

665 or something like that per 1000, So it's it's really high. 

But, But why don't you? 

You care a lot about congestion problems. 

I mean, there's a contestion. 

You don't feel it Because even though people own the cars, They don't use the cars During the weekdays And use public transportation, Right? 

I think it's the same with Korea, Obviously. 

You know, um, in the case, is of Australia or Canada or the US Population density is so low. 

Public transportation is much, much harder, And this sort of big level Only some big series can manage to do that. 

I mean, you are just before, Uh, President Trump. 

Second, Wow, you know? 

Trump Administration New York was actually going to implement congestion crisis. 

It was approved by the city council near City Council, Almost ready to go. 

You've done some experiments. 

They cuts a little bit of more, you know, public approval, Totally. 

They decided to do anyway, Which was good. 

And then It stopped. 

So, it's a very, very, Um, Difficult. 

The easiest part was the theory. 

The easiest part was the theory, You know, economic economic mod. 

It was easiest with, uh, congestion pricing. 

I still remember, you know, like solving the equations Like 30 years ago? 

Technically, it used to be difficult, but not now. 

But politically, it remains beautiful, Right? 

The the interesting, um, As Dynamics now, is whether or not We are going to charge more For EV cars versus, You know, Internal compassion engine class I see in cars, Um, and that goes back to your story of like, You know, congestion. 

Price is not just for the space, but for the pollution and for other, you know, energy consumption and stuff like that. 

But the counter argument is that those issues are are already taken care of my other measures before, Uh, through usually, you know, car automobile taxes, Um, gasoline, You know? 

Oil taxes, gasoline taxes, and other measures, so you don't want to charge people twice. 

But that's a you know? 

That's, that's a theoretical, uh, debate there. 

All right. 

So, My prediction and I hope I'm wrong. 

Is that congestion pricing would not happen in Bangkok for another 20 years? 

I mean at the Y scales and a y scale, Uh, at least at the scales of London, New York, and Sweden. 

Hopefully, I'm wrong. 

Let's complete that fruit to concept. 

Let's predict that Manila, Paris, Boston, Shanghai, Paris, yeah, Um, There was one, You know, abandoning a car is not impossible Or restricting car usages languages. 

We do that all the time for special events. 

We do a little bit for historic Areas, Right? 

There is actually this attempt, um, actually. 

Good question. 

There is this attempt in Chiang Mai, Uh, check my old town. 

If you've been to Chiang Mai Old Town, the square ish Um, there we have been Trying to apply. 

They just admitted another round. 

Apply for the UNESCO world heritage recognition As part of the UNESCO world Heritage, Um, you know? 

Criteria Is the effect of car specifically, Um, at some point. 

I mean, I think there's, I don't know how I'm not an expert on that. 

Um, but there's some clause about pollution or something. 

I don't know what it was, But mostly it's related to cars, Uh, Georgetown, in Penang, Obviously. 

It's also world heritage, You know. 

Tao, Uh, faces the same problem. 

So many cars coming in, so they try to restrict Cars into the city. 

So, the debate Is whether it's To ban cars completely. 

I've had me in this delivery the logistics passengers. 

I've had me in this delivery the logistics passengers, So it's more like restriction. 

It's not congestion per se, but it's Road pricing. 

It's not congestion per se, but it's Road pricing. 

All right, so the rationale is not the congestion part, but the rational is the usage and the effect the negative effects of our usage on historic areas. 

Historic, you know? 

Institutions Like, you know, we could have this crazy F1 race back home, You know, that right? 

And it's kind of interesting how It's gonna play out. 

I mean, I don't know, but one argument against it was that we were going to do it in the historic. 

It's stitched up now, right? 

But we were gonna at one point they were going to do it near the palace, like, wouldn't it be cool? 

You have an F1 engineer, the Grand Palace. 

It's a beautiful city, But obviously, the effect on the Ancient monuments would be Great. 

Would be very, very Yes. 

Am I have you imagine one of their passion tools, but the temple? 

Well, no, it doesn't have to be the crash. 

It's actually the vibration from the cars themselves that will shake the ground and and those are not. 

You know, those pagodas are not concrete, reinforced concrete structures, their bricks, Right? 

I'm I'm, I'm impressed that they survived the earthquake, Right? 

But anyway? 

So, so my point is that Coming back to Road charging? 

It's like, um, Uh, my Earth is historic towns in Europe Everywhere, Right? 

I remember, I mean, I, I used to sort of work a little bit in Geneva, right? 

So the old town of your European cities, they all have Road charging, but not the same way, but it's quarter, right? 

It's a Zone when you go into the old town. 

You can go, but you pay more or you have to park and you walk Right so? 



Yesterday 3:54 PM
So Think. 



Yesterday 3:54 PM
Is Chiang Mai? 

That's, that's the place that somebody has, you know, raised the idea of using that. 

Okay, All right. 

Any questions? 

It's gonna be interesting. 

The residents were complain, but yeah, no, that's good. 

No, every people will complain everywhere, Honestly. 

No, okay, so I didn't tell you my thinking. 

My thinking, is this University Charge people for for driving into the university? 

We went on. 

Yeah, Oh no, no, not yet. 

Talking about, like, Siam Square, you know, like, because I have you swear used to be the, you know, the the, What do you call people just, uh, there's a lot of through traffic through Times Square. 

You know, the pedestrianized areas that you guys see now that used to be the road that people would drive from payatairo to honoraduna dishes. 

All the All right? 

All the All right. 

So at least now, it's more difficult, right? 

So it's much nicer. 

I'm like, why don't we make a low carbon campus? 

So help me All right, good. 

So, next week would be. 

I did not know her All right. 

Okay, thank you. 

Have people online, So we don't. 

Have people online, So we don't. 

